README.md, before:

# 🎬 Video Transcriber

A modern, user-friendly web app for instantly transcribing your videos—whether they're meetings, lectures, interviews, or random clips—using Azure OpenAI Whisper and GPT. Effortlessly search, jump to moments, and ask questions about your video content to save time and boost productivity! 🚀

---

## 📚 Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Setup & Installation](#setup--installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

---

## 📝 Overview
Video Transcriber lets you upload any video—meetings, lectures, interviews, or just random clips—and get a fast, accurate transcription. Instantly search through the transcript, jump to specific moments, find keywords, and even ask AI-powered questions about your video. Save hours of manual review and get straight to what matters! ✨

## ✨ Features
- Upload and transcribe videos in various formats (mp4, mkv, avi, etc.)
- **Duplicate detection:** Uploading or transcribing a duplicate file fetches the existing transcript from the database—no wasted compute!
- **Database tab:** View, transcribe, and delete files. No manual add—files are added via the Transcribe tab only.
- **Database Search tab:** Search and ask questions across all transcriptions using GPT.
- All transcriptions are stored in a persistent database (SQLite via Flask-SQLAlchemy).
- Uploaded files are stored in a persistent `uploads` folder. Deleting a file from the database tab also deletes the file from disk.
- Automatic audio extraction and conversion for unsupported file types.
- Accurate transcription using Azure OpenAI Whisper.
- Search through the transcript and jump to video moments 🔍
- Keyword highlighting and instant navigation
- Ask prompts about the video using GPT 🤖
- Download or copy transcribed text
- Responsive UI with React Bootstrap

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
- **Frontend:** React, React Bootstrap
- **Backend:** Python Flask
- **Transcription:** Azure OpenAI Whisper
- **Other:** ffmpeg (for audio extraction)

## 🏗️ Architecture
```
[User] ⇄ [React Frontend] ⇄ [Flask Backend] ⇄ [Azure OpenAI Whisper & GPT]
```
- The frontend handles file uploads, search, and AI queries.
- The backend processes files, interacts with Azure, and returns transcriptions and GPT responses.
- All files and transcriptions are managed in a persistent database and uploads folder.

## ⚡ Setup & Installation
### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- Python 3.10+
- ffmpeg
- Azure account with OpenAI Whisper and GPT deployments

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Vibe-coding-on-Agentic-DevOps/vibe-coding-poz-wro.git
cd vibe-coding-poz-wro
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables
- Copy `workspace/backend/.env.example` to `workspace/backend/.env` (or ensure `.env` exists).
- Fill in your Azure Whisper and GPT API endpoints and keys:
  - `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT` (Whisper)
  - `AZURE_OPENAI_KEY` (Whisper)
  - `AZURE_GPT_ENDPOINT` (GPT)
  - `AZURE_GPT_KEY` (GPT)

### 3. Quick Setup (Recommended)
Run the setup script to install all dependencies:
```bash
./workspace/setup-dev.sh
```

### 4. Running the App
Start both backend and frontend with one command:
```bash
./workspace/run-app.sh
```

#### Manual Start (Optional)
- **Backend:**
  ```bash
  cd workspace/backend
  python app.py
  ```
- **Frontend:**
  ```bash
  cd workspace/frontend
  npm start
  ```

## 🚀 Usage
1. Open the frontend in your browser (usually at http://localhost:3000).
2. Upload a video file via the Transcribe tab. (All files are managed in the Database tab after upload.)
3. Instantly search, jump to moments, highlight keywords, and ask questions about your video or the entire database!
4. Delete files from the Database tab to remove both the database entry and the file from disk.

## ☁️ Deployment
- Designed for easy deployment to Azure (App Service, Container Apps, etc.).
- Update environment variables as needed for production.

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please open issues or submit pull requests for improvements.

## 🪪 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Rename app to 'Meeting Assistant' and expand documentation with detailed features, usage, and workflow

README.md, after:

# 🤖 Meeting Assistant

A modern, user-friendly web app for instantly transcribing your meetings, lectures, interviews, or any video/audio content—using Azure OpenAI Whisper and GPT. Effortlessly search, jump to moments, and ask questions about your content to save time and boost productivity! 🚀

---

## 📚 Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Setup & Installation](#setup--installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

---

## 📝 Overview
Meeting Assistant lets you upload any meeting, lecture, interview, or other video/audio file and get a fast, accurate transcription. Instantly search through the transcript, jump to specific moments, find keywords, and even ask AI-powered questions about your content. Save hours of manual review and get straight to what matters! ✨

## ✨ Features
- Upload and transcribe meetings, lectures, interviews, and more in various formats (mp4, mkv, avi, wav, mp3, etc.)
- **Duplicate detection:** Uploading or transcribing a duplicate file fetches the existing transcript from the database—no wasted compute!
- **Database tab:** View, transcribe, and delete files. No manual add—files are added via the Transcribe tab only.
- **Database Search tab:** Search and ask questions across all transcriptions using GPT.
- All transcriptions are stored in a persistent database (SQLite via Flask-SQLAlchemy).
- Uploaded files are stored in a persistent `uploads` folder. Deleting a file from the database tab also deletes the file from disk.
- Automatic audio extraction and conversion for unsupported file types.
- Accurate transcription using Azure OpenAI Whisper.
- Search through the transcript and jump to video moments 🔍
- Keyword highlighting and instant navigation
- Ask prompts about the video using GPT 🤖
- Download or copy transcribed text
- Responsive UI with React Bootstrap
- **Q&A:** Ask questions about a single meeting or across your entire database and get instant, AI-powered answers.
- **Global Search:** Find keywords, topics, or speakers across all your meetings.
- **Seamless UX:** Switch between tabs, preview videos, and manage files with ease.
- **Robust file management:** Prevent duplicates, auto-transcribe on upload, and keep your workspace organized.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
- **Frontend:** React, React Bootstrap
- **Backend:** Python Flask
- **Transcription:** Azure OpenAI Whisper
- **Other:** ffmpeg (for audio extraction)
- **Database:** SQLite (via Flask-SQLAlchemy)
- **AI Q&A:** Azure OpenAI GPT

## 🏗️ Architecture
```
[User] ⇄ [React Frontend] ⇄ [Flask Backend] ⇄ [Azure OpenAI Whisper & GPT]
```
- The frontend handles file uploads, search, and AI queries.
- The backend processes files, interacts with Azure, and returns transcriptions and GPT responses.
- All files and transcriptions are managed in a persistent database and uploads folder.

## ⚡ Setup & Installation
### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- Python 3.10+
- ffmpeg
- Azure account with OpenAI Whisper and GPT deployments

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Vibe-coding-on-Agentic-DevOps/vibe-coding-poz-wro.git
cd vibe-coding-poz-wro
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables
- Copy `workspace/backend/.env.example` to `workspace/backend/.env` (or ensure `.env` exists).
- Fill in your Azure Whisper and GPT API endpoints and keys:
  - `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT` (Whisper)
  - `AZURE_OPENAI_KEY` (Whisper)
  - `AZURE_GPT_ENDPOINT` (GPT)
  - `AZURE_GPT_KEY` (GPT)

### 3. Quick Setup (Recommended)
Run the setup script to install all dependencies:
```bash
./workspace/setup-dev.sh
```

### 4. Running the App
Start both backend and frontend with one command:
```bash
./workspace/run-app.sh
```

#### Manual Start (Optional)
- **Backend:**
  ```bash
  cd workspace/backend
  python app.py
  ```
- **Frontend:**
  ```bash
  cd workspace/frontend
  npm start
  ```

## 🚀 Usage
1. Open the frontend in your browser (usually at http://localhost:3000).
2. Upload a meeting or video file via the Transcribe tab. (All files are managed in the Database tab after upload.)
3. Instantly search, jump to moments, highlight keywords, and ask questions about your meeting or the entire database!
4. Delete files from the Database tab to remove both the database entry and the file from disk.
5. Use the Database Search tab to find topics, speakers, or answers across all your meetings.

## ☁️ Deployment
- Designed for easy deployment to Azure (App Service, Container Apps, etc.).
- Update environment variables as needed for production.
- For Docker or cloud deployment, see the provided Dockerfile and deployment notes (if available).

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please open issues or submit pull requests for improvements, bug fixes, or new features. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## 🪪 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.
